MAINTAINERS.md, before:

# OpenSearch Performance Analyzer Maintainers

## Maintainers
| Maintainer              | GitHub ID                                               | Affiliation |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Joshua Tokle            | [jotok](https://github.com/jotok)                       | Amazon      |
| Kunal Khatua            | [kkhatua](https://github.com/kkhatua)                   | Amazon      |
| Ruizhen Guo             | [rguo-aws](https://github.com/rguo-aws)                 | Amazon      |
| Sruti Parthiban         | [sruti1312](https://github.com/sruti1312)               | Amazon      |
| Yujia Sun               | [yujias0706](https://github.com/yujias0706)             | Amazon      |

[This document](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md) explains what maintainers do in this repo, and how they should be doing it. If you're interested in contributing, see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

Updated MAINTAINERS.md to match recommended opensearch-project format.
Signed-off-by: dblock <dblock@amazon.com>

MAINTAINERS.md, after:

## Overview

This document contains a list of maintainers in this repo. See [opensearch-project/.github/RESPONSIBILITIES.md](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/blob/main/RESPONSIBILITIES.md#maintainer-responsibilities) that explains what the role of maintainer means, what maintainers do in this and other repos, and how they should be doing it. If you're interested in contributing, and becoming a maintainer, see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Current Maintainers

| Maintainer      | GitHub ID                                   | Affiliation |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Joshua Tokle    | [jotok](https://github.com/jotok)           | Amazon      |
| Kunal Khatua    | [kkhatua](https://github.com/kkhatua)       | Amazon      |
| Ruizhen Guo     | [rguo-aws](https://github.com/rguo-aws)     | Amazon      |
| Sruti Parthiban | [sruti1312](https://github.com/sruti1312)   | Amazon      |
| Yujia Sun       | [yujias0706](https://github.com/yujias0706) | Amazon      |
